banded pipefish stay close to a small
chosen area on the reef every morning at
sunrise the female leaves her sleeping
site and swims to find her partner for
ten minutes or so they remain together
reaffirming the bond that is essential
to their partnership
they swim together around his territory
in a simple greeting dance throughout
the summer when the females eggs are
ripe courtship begins in earnest in the
early morning it takes time and after
about two hours they rise together off
the seabed and twining their bodies
the mail rubs himself against the female
stimulating her to reduce her eggs
and now firstly the male takes
the eggs now stuck to his belly are
patted down to ensure that they stay
there
the female then leaves him but every
morning she will return for a session of
synchronized swimming and so ensure that
their bond is maintained
ten days later under the cover of
darkness the male shakes his body and
the young pipefish are born only now are
they independent of their parents since
the male takes charge of the eggs as
soon as they're laid the female can
start immediately producing the next
batch without his help the pair could
only breed every 20 days rather than
every 10 so by sharing the work they're
doubling the number of young they can
produce in any one year
[Music]
you